---
id: toevoegen_overig
title: Add Listings
sidebar_label: Add Listings
---

## Options to add listing

DataCatalog supports the following methods of adding listings and resources:

- Harvesting
- API upload
- Manual upload
- IoT data

### Harvest

Configuring a harvester takes place in a number of steps. All of these steps are performed by an administrator.

1. The administrator logs in
2. The administrator defines harvester
3. The administrator allows harvester to run manually for verification
4. If the harvester's test is successful, the administrator sets a schedule
5. Depending on the settings, the datasets are periodically updated automatically.

### API upload

1. The administrator logs in.
2. Looks up documentation (official CKAN API documentation: https://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/api/index.html)
3. Looks up API key (possibly create automation user with more limited rights with your own API key)
4. Script to upload periodically or large amount of metadata via API. Or, for example, with FME software.

### Manual upload

1. The administrator logs in.
2. The administrator creates a new entry (called a Package in CKAN).
3. The administrator adds the desired datasources (called a Resources in CKAN) via the upload button.

### Real time data

DataCatalog also offers the possibility to publish real-time data. Please contact Civity first.

## Link to original data

Instead of uploading actual data as a resource, there's also the option to create a resource that provides a link to the original data.

The listing may include a link as an attachment that the user can click on. Information can also be included that the user needs to access the data in another application (e.g. a desktop application)

### Example 1: ArcGIS Online viewer

Link to the viewer. Via query string parameters, the viewer can be started with certain specific options. Documentation about this can be found here: https://doc.arcgis.com/en/arcgis-online/reference/use-url-parameters.htm.

An example of linking to a viewer: https://www.arcgis.com/home/webmap/viewer.html?basemapUrl=http%3A%2F%2Fservices.arcgisonline.com%2FArcGIS%2Frest%2Fservices%2FOcean_Basemap%2FMapServer&url=http%3A%2F%2Fservices5.arcgis.com%2F9cBkZtsx7PSOoaCF%2Farcgis%2Frest%2Fservices%2FMaryland_Shoals%2FFeatureServer%2F0.

The final URL looks pretty complex. However, this link is automatically generated by the harvester and you do not have to compose it yourself.

### Example 2: GeoServer

Convention: online resource URL, #, name of the layer. For example, "https://portal.prvlimburg.nl/geodata/POL/wms? # POL2014_NAT_LANDSCHAP_ZL_V_inspire". This is the information needed to access this layer in other applications such as ArcGIS for Desktop, QGIS etcetera. Civity can integrate a viewer that uses the same convention. In addition, there is the possibility to generate a sample request. It should be noted that this will not always result in a meaningful image (for example, in the case of scale-dependent rendering).
